Add docs for experimental wfp dev (#14065)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/get-started/developing-with-wrangler.md

---
pcx_content_type: how-to

> title: Developing with Wrangler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Local development 
```

weight: 3
layout: wide
---

# Developing with Wrangler

> To test out your dispatch and user Workers before deploying to production, you can use [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler) for development and testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test out your [dispatch Worker](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#dynamic-dispatch-worker), [user Worker](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#user-workers) and [outbound Worker](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/configuration/outbound-workers/) before deploying to production, you can use [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler) for development and testing.
```

{{<Aside>}}
Support for Workers for Platforms with `wrangler dev` in local mode is experimental and may change in the future. Use the prerelease branch: `wrangler@dispatch-namespaces-dev` to try out Workers for Platforms locally.
{{</Aside>}}

### 1. Create a user worker

```sh
$ npm create cloudflare@latest customer-worker-1
```

When following the interactive prompts, answer the questions as below:

- Select `no` to using TypeScript.
- **Select `no` to deploying your application.**

> Update the `src/index.js` file for customer-worker-1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update the `src/index.js` file for customer-worker-1:
```

```javascript
---

> filename: "src/index.js"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
filename: src/index.js
```

---
export default {
  async fetch(request) {
    // make a subrequest to the internet
    const response = await fetch('https://example.com');
    return new Response(`user worker got "${await response.text()}" from fetch`);
  }
}
```

Update the `wrangler.toml` file for customer-worker-1 and add the dispatch namespace:

```toml
---

> filename: "wrangler.toml"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
filename: wrangler.toml
```

---
# ... other content above ...

dispatch_namespace = "my-namespace"
```

{{<Aside>}}

> Note that the dispatch namespace used here does not have to be created using the [Wrangler command](/workers/wrangler/commands#dispatch-namespace) when using `wrangler dev` locally, but is required when deploying to production.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dispatch namespace used above does not have to be created using the [Wrangler command](/workers/wrangler/commands#dispatch-namespace) when using `wrangler dev` locally, but it is required when deploying to production.
```

{{</Aside>}}

> ### 2. Create a dispatch worker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 2. Create a dispatch worker
```

```sh
$ npm create cloudflare@latest dispatch-worker
```

When following the interactive prompts, answer the questions as below:

- Select `no` to using TypeScript.

> - **Select `no` to deploying your application.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Select `no` to deploying your application.
```

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason why this is in bold? If there is, ignore this suggestion. :)

> Update the `src/index.js` file for dispatch-worker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update the `src/index.js` file for dispatch-worker:
```

```javascript
---

> filename: "src/index.js"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
filename: src/index.js
```

---
export default {
  async fetch(request, env) {

>     // get the user worker, specifying parameters that the outbound worker will see when it intercepts a user worker's subrequest

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // get the user Worker, specifying parameters that the Outbound Worker will see when it intercepts a user worker's subrequest
```

    const customerScript = env.DISPATCH_NAMESPACE.get(
      "customer-worker-1",
      {},
      {
        outbound: {
          paramCustomerName: 'customer-1'
        }
      }
    );

>     // invoke user worker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // invoke user Worker
```

    return await customerScript.fetch(request);
  }
}
```

Update the `wrangler.toml` file for dispatch-worker and add the dispatch namespace binding:

```toml
---

> filename: "wrangler.toml"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
filename: wrangler.toml
```

---
# ... other content above ...

[[dispatch_namespaces]]
binding = "DISPATCH_NAMESPACE"
namespace = "my-namespace"
outbound = { service = "outbound-worker", parameters = ["paramCustomerName"] }
```

> ### 3. Create an outbound worker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 3. Create an Outbound Worker
```

```sh
$ npm create cloudflare@latest outbound-worker
```

When following the interactive prompts, answer the questions as below:

- Select `no` to using TypeScript.
- **Select `no` to deploying your application.**

> Update the `src/index.js` file for outbound-worker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update the `src/index.js` file for outbound-worker:
```

```javascript
---

> filename: "src/index.js"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
filename: src/index.js
```

---
export default {
  async fetch(request, env) {
    const { paramCustomerName } = env;

>     // use the paramters passed by the dispatcher to know what this user this request is for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // use the parameters passed by the dispatcher to know what this user this request is for
```

    // and return custom content back to the user worker
    return new Response(`intercepted a request for ${paramCustomerName} by the outbound`);
  }
}
```

> ### 4. Start dev sessions for your workers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 4. Start a local session for your Workers
```

> In separate terminals, start dev sessions for each of your workers:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In separate terminals, start a local session for each of your Workers.
```

> For your dispatcher worker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For your dispatcher Worker:

```

```sh
$ cd dispatch-worker
$ npx wrangler@dispatch-namespaces-dev dev --port 8600
```

> For your outbound worker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For your Outbound Worker:

```

```sh
$ cd outbound-worker
$ npx wrangler@dispatch-namespaces-dev dev --port 8601
```

> And for your user worker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And for your user Worker:

```

```sh
$ cd customer-worker-1
$ npx wrangler@dispatch-namespaces-dev dev --port 8602
```

> ## 5. Test out requests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 5. Test your requests
```

> Make a request to your dispatcher worker!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Send a request to your dispatcher Worker:
```

# Developing with Wrangler

To test out your dispatch and user Workers before deploying to production, you can use [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler) for development and testing.

{{<Aside>}}
Support for Workers for Platforms with `wrangler dev` in local mode is experimental and may change in the future. Use the prerelease branch: `wrangler@dispatch-namespaces-dev` to try out Workers for Platforms locally.
{{</Aside>}}

### 1. Create a user worker

```sh
$ npm create cloudflare@latest customer-worker-1
```

When following the interactive prompts, answer the questions as below:

- Select `no` to using TypeScript.
- **Select `no` to deploying your application.**

Update the `src/index.js` file for customer-worker-1

```javascript
---
filename: "src/index.js"
---
export default {
  async fetch(request) {
    // make a subrequest to the internet
    const response = await fetch('https://example.com');
    return new Response(`user worker got "${await response.text()}" from fetch`);
  }
}
```

Update the `wrangler.toml` file for customer-worker-1 and add the dispatch namespace:

```toml
---
filename: "wrangler.toml"
---
# ... other content above ...

dispatch_namespace = "my-namespace"
```

> {{<Aside>}}

Reviewer 3: That's not true. It is required for local dev as well.

Author: what is it required for? i went to the `external-dispatch-namespace-app` fixture and swapped all references to `my-namespace` to a random string and everything worked fine

Reviewer 3: Hmm, that's a bug if it's not. This line of code _should_ mean that we're trying to match the dispatch namespace prop as well: https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/pull/5622/files#diff-515d499d8180cc9295a709ed40112d62ff64f8704099d9360218cd15c87a74dcR55

Reviewer 3: If I'm deving a complex app which has bindings to two different namespaces, I need to know which script to dispatch to in the case of a name collision.

Granted, the dev registry assumes names are a unique identifier for running scripts as is (so I think last one to spin up would win), but I'd say that's technically just another bug.

Reviewer 3: Gotcha! Sorry, yes, I misinterpreted that on my first read. I wouldn't bother calling it out to be honest. This is the same behavior as all other local dev experiences (e.g. you don't need to create a D1 database in production before using it in dev either).

If you _must_ call it out, "created using the Wrangler command" doesn't immediately say "in production" to me anyway.

Maybe something like "You do not need to create the dispatch namespace in production before you can use `wrangler dev` with these scripts locally. However, before publishing to production, you will need to ensure this dispatch namespace does exist. You can create it by running `wrangler <blah>`."

Author: ah. if others related docs don't mention it, i'll just remove

    const customerScript = env.DISPATCH_NAMESPACE.get(
      "customer-worker-1",
      {},
      {
        outbound: {
          parameter1: "p1",
          parameter2: "p2"
        }
      }
    );
    // invoke user worker
    return await customerScript.fetch(request);
  }
}
```

Update the `wrangler.toml` file for dispatch-worker and add the dispatch namespace binding:

```toml
---
filename: "wrangler.toml"
---
# ... other content above ...

[[dispatch_namespaces]]
binding = "DISPATCH_NAMESPACE"
namespace = "my-namespace"
outbound = { service = "outbound-worker", parameters = ["parameter1", "parameter2"] }
```

### 3. Create an outbound worker

```sh
$ npm create cloudflare@latest outbound-worker
```

When following the interactive prompts, answer the questions as below:

- Select `no` to using TypeScript.
- **Select `no` to deploying your application.**

Update the `src/index.js` file for outbound-worker

```javascript
---
filename: "src/index.js"
---
export default {
  async fetch(request, env) {
    const { parameter1, parameter2 } = env;
    // return custom content back, and set headers based on the dispatcher's parameters

>     return new Response("intercepted by the outbound", {

Reviewer 3: Might be nice to put the parameters in the response text so it's shown in the final result here. Otherwise, these headers are just being lost by the time we return an eyeball response.

      headers: { parameter1, parameter2 }
    });
  }
}
```

### 4. Start dev sessions for your workers

In separate terminals, start dev sessions for each of your workers:

For your dispatcher worker
```sh
$ cd dispatch-worker
$ npx wrangler@dispatch-namespaces-dev dev
```

For your outbound worker
```sh
$ cd outbound-worker
$ npx wrangler@dispatch-namespaces-dev dev
```

And for your user worker
```sh
$ cd customer-worker-1
$ npx wrangler@dispatch-namespaces-dev dev
```

## 5. Test out requests

Make a request to your dispatcher worker!

{{<Aside>}}

> The port you use on `localhost` may be 8787, or it may be something else. Check the output of the dev session for `dispatch-worker` to see the specific port.

Reviewer 3: I'd include `--port 8601` or something in the commands above, so that you can then just specify exactly what URL to open here.
